Katherine Freeman
August 10, 2023
CS 470 Final Reflection
https://youtu.be/fyPuVuptGSI

This course provided me with the knowledge and skills to build a cloud-based application using AWS, specifically API Gateway, DynamoDB, S3, and Lambda. I also learned how to use docker-compose to configure and run multiple containers, and to migrate the application to the cloud. While there are many different tools that can be used to build a full stack web application, this course strengthened my understanding of the logic behind achieving this. I am self-motivated to learn new things, which should help me excel in an environment where the technology is constantly changing and thrive in an environment where I am able to work autonomously. I also feel that I am good at recognizing my weaknesses and accepting constructive criticism, and enjoy the opportunity to improve these qualities. My ability to recognize patterns, passion for puzzles and strong problem-solving skills make me a strong candidate for a career in either full stack or backend software engineering.

Microservices make applications easier to manage and scale, and faster to develop. It involves breaking down a large application into smaller, independent services, each performing a single function, that communicate over APIs. This means they can be independently updated and deployed as necessary. Serverless architecture allows developers to build and run applications without having to manage any servers. This approach saves time and money and reduces security vulnerabilities. AWS Step functions allows you to separate workflow logic from business logic so the workflow can be modified to handle errors without changing the business logic. There are many factors that affect the cost of a serverless application, but AWS provides an AWS Pricing Calculator that allows you to input your required services and anticipated usage to determine an estimated cost. Serverless application costs are determined by the number of requests they receive while containers’ cost is based on amount of resources used. This makes containers more cost predictable. Elasticity and pay-for-service will ensure that the cost to run the application remains proportional to usage. If the cost becomes too high, the application will need to be reconfigured to reduce storage space or service usage.
